#labels Featured,Tutorial
=Concerto v3.0 Tutorials: General manual=
                        ==_(under revision)_==

_This document is relevant to Concerto v3.0 and higher. If you have an older version installed, it is recommended that you upgrade to the latest version (or else refer to relevant manual)._

Working with Concerto v3.0 can be easy as A-B-C if you are well oriented with the user interface. This tutorial is a guide to the administration panel and sections (i.e. tabs) that you can use when working with Concerto v3.0. 

We rely as much as possible on popular open source packages in order to maximize the safety and reliability of the system and to ensure that its elements are kept up-to-date.


==General Guide & Key==

Before we go into the details of the administration panel, you should familiarise yourself with the basic icons present in Concerto v3.0.
  
|| *Symbol* || *Description* ||
||  || Add new object ||
||  || Edit object ||
||  || Delete object ||
||  || Export object ||
||  || Import object ||
||  || Go to last page ||
||  || Go to next page ||
||  || Go to first page ||
||  || Go to previous page ||
||  || Search for an object using id, name or owner ||
||  || Help text; hover over the symbol for a basic description ||
||  || Cancel changes made to object since last _Save_ ||
||  || Save changes made to object since last _Save_ ||
||  || Delete ||
||  || ID of the object ||
||  || Name of the object ||
||  || Owner of the object ||
||  || Who can access the object  ||
||  || Debug a test to identify issues/errors ||
||  || Show variables that have been specified in the test ||


==Administration Panel==

The administration panel consists of several elements and sections. 
These elements include:
 * Header 
 * Sections
  * Tests
  * Custom test sections
  * HTML templates
  * Tables


===Header===

The header of Concerto v3.0 is simple with minimal icons. On the left side:
 * *Theme* - Change the appearance of the user interface to suit your preferences.
 * *User information* - Your login id and full name as specified in your account. You may logout by clicking the _log out_ icon.
 * *Language support* - Change the language of the interface for easier navigation etc. 


===Tests===

This section is used to create, edit and manage tests as a whole or specific test logic sections. 
The left side of the page shows the list of tests that are available to you. Any tests that you create will be visible here. Use this area to create a new test, edit or delete existing tests. You can search for any specific test you want by typing in the test id/name or owner in the search list. You can also manually navigate between tests page-by-page. 

When you create a new test or select an existing test to be edited, it will be displayed on the right side of the page, adjacent to the list of _available objects_. Here you can structure your test using a number of predefined basic test sections, including:
 * *Go to* - Select which section to proceed to; can skip sections, go forward, backward, make a loop etc.
 * *IF statement* - make conditional statements regarding how your test should proceed. E.g. _If_ total score is equal to 10, _then_ proceed to last section. Multiple conditions can be set too.
 * *Load HTML template* - Stops the R engine and loads a HTML template as specified.
 * *R code* - directly use R code to define variables, run commands etc.
 * *Set variable* - Define variables to be used in the test (may be visible in the HTML layer or only to R) using R code, table data or a previously declared variable.
 * *Table modification* - Modify existing tables (insert, modify or delete table rows) as your test proceeds and collects data.


===Custom Test Sections===

This section is used to create custom test logic sections for more experienced users and/or advanced tests. Rather than having a complicated SQL query/statement that needs to be integrated into the R code, you can develop custom test sections and save them for easier use and access. If you are confident, they may also be shared and accessible by others (group or public access rights)!


===HTML Templates===

This section is used to create HTML templates that will be presented as is to the test taker. Thus, you can make template as simple or comprehensive as you like.

The left side of the page shows the list of HTML templates that are available to you. Any templates that you create will be visible here. Use this area to create a new template, edit or delete existing templates. You can search for any specific template you want by typing in the template id/name or owner in the search list. You can also manually navigate between items page-by-page. 

When you click on the edit icon of a specific HTML template, it opens the template on the right side of the page. You can then edit the template as you want it to appear to the test taker. The tool bar includes a range of options for formatting, response options and inserts etc. 


===Tables===

This section is used to create tables for storing data to be used in a test (E.g. test items and response options) or data collected as the result of a test (E.g. test taker’s responses). Again, the page is divided into the list of available objects/tables, on the left side, and the table being edited, on the right side. When creating or editing tables, you can directly key in the data (e.g. test items) or import tables from MySQL or a CSV file. The table you create here can also be exported as a CSV file. 