#labels Featured,Tutorial
.
=Concerto v3.0 Tutorials: _Frequently Asked Questions_=

_This document is relevant to Concerto v3.0 and higher. If you have an older version installed, it is recommended that you upgrade to the latest version (or else refer to relevant manual)._

If you don't see the answer to your question on any of our pages, please feel free to *[mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk email us]* and we will get back to you as soon as possible.

===What is the best way to learn to use Concerto?===
Working with Concerto v3.0 can be fairly easy if you are well oriented with the user interface. The easiest way to get started is to go through the tutorials. Once you are familiar with the *[http://code.google.com/p/concerto-platform/wiki/Concerto3Tabs General manual]*, you should attempt to explore the sections by yourself. Next, go through the tutorial and *[http://code.google.com/p/concerto-platform/wiki/Concerto3SimpleTest create a simple test]* exactly as instructed. Following this, try to upload a few simple tests using the techniques that you have already learnt. Then, go through the tutorial and *[http://code.google.com/p/concerto-platform/wiki/Concerto3AdaptiveTest create an adaptive test]*. Again, once you have mastered the tutorial, attempt to create your own tests by applying the recently learnt techniques. 

===How much does it cost?===
Concerto is an open source project so anyone can use it free of charge.

===Can I try out Concerto without downloading the full package?===
Yes, you can email [mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk&subject=Concerto%20demo%20account Ms. Vaishali Mahalingam] in order to get a _demo account_. You can then login [http://dev.myiqtest.org/concerto3_demo/cms/index.php here]. 

===Can I develop tutorials for Concerto?===
Of course! We are very happy to expand the list of available tutorials. Please *[mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk contact us]* if you would like to help the Concerto user community by developing tutorials.

===Do you conduct workshops regarding Concerto and related subjects?===
Yes, we conduct workshops on adaptive testing, item response theory etc in-house and across the globe. Please check our [http://www.psychometrics.cam.ac.uk/page/29/trainingworkshops.htm website] for more information on upcoming workshops. 

===Can Concerto handle only _alternate-choice_ (e.g. yes/no) items?===
No, Concerto is flexible enough that you can develop tests with virtually any response format. E.g. multiple choice, likert scales, open text, heat maps, flash games and even trace mouse movements. More advanced response options may require some basic knowledge of web design. 

===Can reaction times be recorded? If so, to what precision?===
Yes, reaction time can be measured using the timer (time_left) function. Further, it can also be recorded with very high precision (almost to 1 millisecond). Such precise measurements would require basic javascript coding knowledge as we don't have that functionality built into concerto, currently. _It has been added to the list of features for the new version._

===What is the nature of your subject pool?===
Concerto does not have a specific sample pool for people to register. It is a testing platform and not a test administration service. You can create your test on Concerto and then invite your subjects to respond to it. 